Application Insights - Notes and other aspects
Application Insights


Overview

This is an application Performance Management service for web developers.

You can use this tool to monitor your applications.

It can help developers detect anomalies in the application.

It can help diagnose issues.

It can also help understand how users use your application.

It also helps you improve performance and usability of your application.

Different aspects that get monitored with Application Insights

Request rates, the response times and failure rates – This is done at the page level.

Exception recorded by your application.

Page views and their load performance as reported from the user’s browser.

User and session counts.

Performance counters of the underlying Windows or Linux Machines.

Diagnostic trace logs from your application.

Any custom events or metrics that the developer writes themselves in the code

Different ways to see how your site is behaving

Funnels

You can create a funnel from one stage to another stage of your application.

You can then see how users are progressing through the stages of the funnel.

User Flows

This helps visualize how users navigate between pages in your site. This can help answer question such as

Does the user navigate away from a page on your site

What do users click on a page on your site

Where are the places where users churn most on your site

Are there places where users repeat the same action over and over

Impact

This helps decide if a page is having an impact on your application.

It can help answer the question as to whether the page load time is impacting how many people convert on a page in the application.

Retention

This helps you understand how many users return to your application.

It can also help understand if users are able to perform certain tasks in your application.

Usage and estimation costs

If you go to your application insights resource and go to Usage and estimated costs, you will see your usage and estimated costs for using application insights


If you go onto Data retention, you can decide for how long you want to retain the data collected by Application Insights. The maximum retention period is 730 days.


If you go to Data sampling, you can decide how much data you want to be sent onto Application Insights. Sometimes if you have massive amounts of data being generated , it might slow down your application. In such cases , you can send data samples instead onto Application Insights


You can also set a Daily cap on what is the maximum amount of data that can be collected by Application Insights on a daily basis


